Another thing to know about the browser,
because we are talking about how
the browser works, is the Cache.
So, typically, or originally,
we developers, we hated the Cache.
So, it's like, in fact,
let me see if this is still working.
It was working like a year ago or
in the past ten years.
When you were doing a search on Google and
you search, for
example, php no, let's see,
yeah, there it is.
Now it's the second one.
It was originally the first one, no cache.
So the most searched thing
is how I disable the cache.
So you use a back end server know.
And the next thing is,
I don't want to cache.
Why, because you we don't
manage the cache initially.
So we are scared of things, we don't manage.
So it's like,
I don't know what's going on.
So I don't know if it's a cache problem,
this is browser it my users' browsers
are caching data that I don't want,
then I'm not going to send the user
the right message or the right content.
So we typically say no to the cache.
Well, we need to make cache a friend,
okay?
So how the cache works?
And typically,
we will focus on caching on the,
resource discovery queue, okay?
So we have a resource discovery queue.
So now the browser is parsing the HTML,
but
now the browser knows that it needs
to download a CSS, an image file,
a JSON file, an SVG file, it has
a list of elements to be downloaded.
So, what happens is that in this case,
the browser will check the cache to see
if we have a version of that file or not.
And how does that work?
You know how that works,
how the cache works.
So is that is the browser making
the decision about what to cache and
for how long who makes that decision?
Well, actually us, and
the problem of not knowing the cache
is that we are not making any decision.
Okay, so actually we will
define cache headers per file.
Sometimes it's not per file, but per
type of file for
all the CSS files, or for
all the CSS files in that folder, etc.
We can define an absolute typos again,
absolute expiration date that was actually
said in the original 1.0, HTTP protocol,
we can set the relative expiration date.
I will give you examples in a second,
That was added in 1.1.
And there are more specs,
more values that we will see, but
the original ones are these two.
Absolute expiration date means when the
server is given to the browser a CSS file.
In the headers, we add one that says,
that CSS file expires May 21st
of 2024, at 4PM Pacific time.
Then the browser will save the file.
In the users local storage
in the user's device,
let's say until that day. It does not work
like that but okay makes sense?
And relative expiration date
means I want this file
will last for an hour or for
two years, or for one month.
And then the browser will calculate
the real expiration date, okay?
So now,
let's say the browser needs a resource.
So first, it checks.
The cache.
It can be a cache miss, or
a cache hit, a miss means it's not there.
And that simple if it's not there,
okay, we go to our network as usual.
Business as usual.
If it's a cache hit, okay, it means the
file that we need is the cache okay.
So it will verify if it's expired or not.
Let's say it's expired, it's not expired.
If it's not expired, we will say,
well, let's use it from the cache.
So we use the file from the cache.
We don't go to a network.
So we don't have the HTTP request.
We don't have the latency for
that request.
We don't need to wait for
the server to respond or to get the bytes.
Okay, we have the file.
What happens if it's expired?
So we have the file, but it's expired.
What do you think that will happen?
>> Goes to the network.
>> It goes to the network,
>> Delete it from the cache first.
>> Delete from the cache first.
Let's say, kind of, and a no.
It's not going to delete
it from the cache.
It's going to the network, but
not for what you're expecting.
It's making what is known
as a conditional request.
It will say, hey server,
for that CSS file,
I have a version, and
what do I do with that?
And the server can respond
with not modified,
that means the file you have is okay,
go ahead with that. Here, in
the server, we didn't change it.
So let's keep it and
it can attach updated cache
headers such as keep it move your
expiration date for two months.
Or you can say no the one
you have is gone.
So I'm going to respond with an OK
and a new file. HTTP 200, okay?
Which seems like not so bad,
the conditional request.
The problem of the conditional request
is that it's waiting an HTTP request,
it needs to go to the server.
So the overhead for
a conditional request is still almost as
the same as making the normal
request from scratch.
So typically we wanna avoid conditional
requests because it's not adding any
value there.
The idea originally was good,
probably, but in the real world,
it's like making a normal request.
It takes the same amount of time,
we need to go to a server and
the whole overhead is there, okay?
Makes sense?
So we need to understand this,
and then use this in our favor.
How, we need to maximize
the opportunity of always
having the file on user's devices.
If we do that,
we will improve performance,
because performance is
about user's perception.
Okay, so yeah,
the problem is that I know, but yeah, but
I have my manager here that she always
wanted to keep fresh the data so we need
to push always the latest version just in
case we change the CSS with the color.
but performance is more important.
So we need to find a way
to go over that and
there are design patterns to do that so
it's always better
to set static resources with
a far late expiration date.
It will last for 60 years.
It doesn't matter.
And it's, you're not going to waste users'
space because browsers will delete your,
they have their own expiration rules for
that.
So it's,
you shouldn't care too much about, okay?
Do you have any question about
how the browser's cache work?
>> So I guess just like
differentiate between caching,
like passwords and
username, like login info,
would that really be the only thing that
you'd want to have, like a more set?
>> Yeah, in this case,
the browser's cache is a separate storage
compared with other
storages that you have.
If you're interested in how that works and
all the storage,
I have another workshop on
Frontend Masters on storage APIs.
So if you check that one
with more information about
storing credentials and databases.
And the next I think it is exactly
what we are going to see in a second.